Verse 1: 1Well, after that, I saw a messenger coming down out of the sky who had a long chain in his hand [that held] the key to the abyss.
Verse 2: 2Then he grabbed the Dragon – the original snake, the Slanderer and Opposer – and chained him up for
Verse 1: 1,000 years.
Verse 3: 3And then he threw him into the abyss… He closed it up and locked it up over him, so he couldn’t mislead the nations anymore until after the
Verse 1: 1,000 years had ended. However, he will be set free for a little while after that.
Verse 4: 4Next I saw thrones, and those who sat down on them were the ones who had been executed with axes for testifying about Jesus, for telling about God, and those who hadn’t worshiped the wild animal or its image, nor had they received its branding on their foreheads or on their hands. For they were appointed to be judges. Yes, they came to life and ruled as kings with the Anointed One for
Verse 1: 1,000 years…
Verse 5: 5The rest of the dead didn’t come to life until the end of the thousand years [spurious text] This is the first resurrection.
Verse 6: 6Those who have a part in the first resurrection are blest and holy, because the second death won’t have any power over them... For they’ll be Priests of God and of the Anointed One and they’ll rule for
Verse 1: 1,000 years.
Verse 7: 7However, after the
Verse 1: 1,000 years have ended, the Slanderer will be set free from his prison
Verse 8: 8and he’ll go out to mislead people – Gog and Magog – in all four corners of the earth. Then he will assemble them all for a war… There’ll be as many [of them] as [there are grains of] sand in the seas!
Verse 9: 9These will thereafter march across the whole earth and they’ll surround the camp of the Holy Ones and the loved city… But then fire will come from the sky and consume them!
Verse 10: 10And the Opposer who misled them will then be thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur, where the wild animal and the false prophet will already have been, and they’ll be tortured there day and night throughout ages of ages.
Verse 11: 11Then after that, I saw someone sitting on a huge white throne… And before him the land and the sky just vanished and couldn’t be found.
Verse 12: 12I also saw the dead – the great and the small – standing before the throne, and several scrolls were opened. Then another scroll was opened, which was the Scroll of Life. And the dead were judged by the things that were written in the scrolls, according to the things that they’d done.
Verse 13: 13Then the sea gave up its dead, and death and the place of the dead gave up the dead in them, and they were all judged by the things that they had done.
Verse 14: 14And finally, death and the place of the dead were thrown into the lake of fire (the lake of fire symbolizes the second death),
Verse 15: 15and anyone whose name wasn’t found written in the Scroll of Life was also thrown into the lake of fire. 